[ENH] Propagate exceptions from `cdef` functions by default (#4670)
cython/cython: docs/src/userguide/migrating_to_cy30.rst

The old behaviour can be restored with the 
:ref:`directive <compiler-directives>` ``c_api_binop_methods=True``.
More details are given in :ref:`arithmetic_methods`.

Exception values and ``noexcept``
=================================

``cdef`` functions that are not ``extern`` now propagate Python
exceptions by default, where previously they needed to explicitly be
declated with :ref:`exception value <error_return_values>` in order
for them to do so. A new ``noexcept`` modifier can be used to declare
``cdef`` functions that will not raise exceptions.

In existing code, you should mainly look out for ``cdef`` functions
that are declared without an exception value::

  cdef int spam(int x):
      pass

If you left out the exception value by mistake, i.e., the function
actually can raise Python exceptions, then the new behaviour will
take care of this for you, and correctly propagate any exceptions.

On the other hand, if you didn't declare an exception value because
the function indeed cannot raise exceptions, the new behaviour will
result in slightly less efficient code being generated.  To avoid

> that, you must declare thee function explicitly as being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that, you must declare the function explicitly as being
```

:ref:`directive <compiler-directives>` ``c_api_binop_methods=True``.
More details are given in :ref:`arithmetic_methods`.

Exception values and ``noexcept``
=================================

``cdef`` functions that are not ``extern`` now propagate Python
exceptions by default, where previously they needed to explicitly be

> declated with :ref:`exception value <error_return_values>` in order

Author: ```suggestion
declared with :ref:`exception value <error_return_values>` in order
```

> declared with :ref:`exception value <error_return_values>` in order

Author: ```suggestion
declared with an :ref:`exception value <error_return_values>` in order
```

for them to do so. A new ``noexcept`` modifier can be used to declare
``cdef`` functions that will not raise exceptions.

In existing code, you should mainly look out for ``cdef`` functions
that are declared without an exception value::

  cdef int spam(int x):
      pass

> If you left out the exception value by mistake, i.e., the function
> actually can raise Python exceptions, then the new behaviour will
> take care of this for you, and correctly propagate any exceptions.

Author: ```suggestion
If you left out the exception value by mistake, i.e., you meant for
the function to be able to propagate Python exceptions, then the new
behaviour will take care of this for you, and correctly propagate any
exceptions.
```

> care of this for you, and correctly propagate any exceptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
care of this for you, and correctly propagate any exceptions.
This was a common mistake in Cython code and the main reason to change the behaviour.
```

> On the other hand, if you didn't declare an exception value because
> you know that the function cannot raise exceptions, the new behaviour

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if you didn't declare an exception value because
you want to avoid exceptions propagating out of this function, the new behaviour
```

I'm just rephrasing this because people might legitimately be using the "swallow exceptions" behaviour - it isn't required that the code can't raise exceptions.

> will result in slightly less efficient code being generated.  To
> prevent that, you must declare the function explicitly as being

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will result in slightly less efficient code being generated, now involving an exception check.
To prevent that, you must declare the function explicitly as being
```
